Hey, guys, this is part one of my introduction to data structures, and in this video I will talk
about STAC, which is an important data structure in programming and very often asked on coding interviews.
So at the end of this video, I will give you some code examples in JavaScript, but this video is going
to be mostly language independent.
So you will be able to use whatever you learn in this course, in whatever language that you are using.
I will be posting part two of my data structures next week.
So hit that subscribe button below and turn on the notifications so you don't miss out.
Before we start, I wanted to tell you that I just released my full coding course on Udemy and right
now there is a 90 percent off discount for my subscribers.
You can find the discount link in the description below.
All right.
So let's get started with part one of data structures.
So what is a stack, a stack is used for storing information, and each note contains some information
and it is stacked on top of each other.
So on top of the stack, we have a stack pointer.
And it is always pointing to the top note of this attack, so to manipulate a stack, we have two functions,
a pop function.
To remove the top element of the stack.
OK, and a push function.
The push adds an element to the top of the deck, since we're always doing something to the top of the
stack for that reason.
This is a last in first data structure.
So that is called life.
Which is last in first out, because the last item we add to the stack is always going to be the first
item we're going to remove from the stack.
So now let's write some pseudocode.
So first we're going to push to the stack.
So we're going to push a one to the stack.
So it's a stack of empty right now.
We're going to push one to the top of the stack.
So we're going to push it right here.
And remember, we have a stack pointer which will point to the to the node at the top of the stack.
So this is our stack pointer is pointing to this note.
Now, let's write another push.
Let's push through.
So now we're going to push it on top and then also we're going to move that stack pointer.
To the element at the top.
Steck.
Let's push another one.
So, again, we're going to update our stack pointer.
OK, now let's pop.
So we're going to remove the element from the top of the stack.
So it doesn't take any arguments, we just pop what did we do, Paul?
We're just removing the element at the top of the stack.
So how do we know what element to remove?
We look at the stack pointer.
What element is it pointing to, it's always pointing to the element element at the top of the stack,
so we're going to remove this element by looking at the stack pointer.
So we remove this element.
And instead, whenever we do a pop, we always have to return the element which we removed.
So we're going to return.
The seven in our function since we just removed it, and then we have to update our stack pointer to
point to the note at the top of the stack.
So again.
We're going to move this country.
To the top note, so let me show you how you actually implement the tax methods.
In total, there are about five methods for this stack.
So first thing we need to do is we need to create a size variable, which will be equal to zero.
Basically, we are keeping track of the index.
Through the thighs were able OK, so first let's implement the push method.
So let's say you want to push a string A.
A two hour stack, so how are you going to push it?
We're going to look at the size and the size of all this starts with zero.
So we're going to.
But a at the index zero over Steck.
And that immediately within our push function, we're going to increase the size variable, so the next
time that we push, we have an available index to push it.
So we're going to increase the size.
By one of the variable here.
OK, so now let's push another one.
That's Pushpa.
So, again, we're going to look at the size variable.
So right here, we're going to push it.
Immediately, we're going to increase the size.
All right, so now let's implement the public method.
Takes no argument and it's going to delete the element from the top of the stack.
So how are we going to do this?
We're going to look at the size, but the size does not have any element in it.
So what we're going to do is we're going to size.
Minus one size, minus one point to this index, and this one actually has the element.
So this is our top element.
So we're going to remove this element at the top of the stack.
OK, and immediately after that, within the pop function, we're going to decrease the size of variable.
OK, and within the pop function, we always want to return the element which we have deleted, so we're
going to return.
The going to try to be that we have deleted.
So now let's implement a function called peak.
So all he does is return the element at the top of the stack.
So how do we get that?
All we have to do is size minus one
size minus one, which will be a zero.
So our top element is a and that is what is going to return.
Now, let's implement the next function, which is called civs.
So all of what size does is to return the amount of elements within the stack.
So how can we do that?
We can look at the size, variable and size variable is actually one.
So how many elements are within the stack?
We only have one.
So all we need to do is return the size variable, which will actually equal the amount of variables
within our stack.
So all we have to do is return to size for the size function and then the next function is called empty.
So what empty does it check the stack if there is no elements within the stack, it would return to?
True, but if there is an element like this that will return false.
So how can we check that?
All we need to do is we need to check again the size variable.
If the size variable is equal to zero, then return a true meaning.
There's no element in the stack, but if the size is like one or greater greater than zero, then return
a false meaning.
There is elements within the stack.
So why do we have to check if it's zero?
Well, let's look at it this way.
The size is always going to the size variable is always going to start with zero, meaning there is
no variables and sorry, there's no elements within the stack.
So when you want to push and push up here, what we're going to do is we're going to push the element.
To the zero index that, again, immediately we're going to increase the size by one.
So as you can see.
If there were elements within the stack, then the size or always the size variable would always be
one.
But if there's no elements within the stack, the size variable will always start with a zero.
So that's why four empty, we look at the size variable equal to zero.
And if it does, that means there is no element within the stack and that's what we're going to return
to.
True.
So let me show you all of this implementation in actual code.
All right, guys, so let's implement the stack.
So the first thing we need to do is we need to create a constructor so that we can create or two objects.
So the first object is cold storage and that's going to store all the elements for our stack.
And if you remember from the whiteboard explanation, we have another variable, which is the size variable,
which will keep track of the index.
For our start.
So the first function is called push, and that's for adding elements into the stack on adding elements
to the top of the stack.
So we take a value and we add it to the top.
So how we're going to do that, we're going to get the storage and the index of the size, which is
currently zero.
So that's where we're going to add our first element.
And if you remember, immediately after Etting, after adding we're going to increase the size so that
next time we push, we can add the element to that index.
So that's why we're going to increase the size after pushing the element to the top of the stack.
The second function is called Pop, so that's for deleting the element from the top.
And if you remember, after deleting the element, we want to return the element that we have deleted
from this deck, so we have to return the element that we have deleted from this deck.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to get the reference of the element that we're going to
be deleting.
So this class size minus one, why are we doing minus one is because if you remember, every time you
push, we're increasing the size.
So to get the element at the top of the stack, we have to do this size minus one, and then we'll get
the element at the top of the stack.
And after that, we're going to delete that element from the top of the step.
And immediately after that, we're going to decrease the size.
Because the element as it is deleted, so we have to also decrease the size to decrease the size of
the stack.
And after removing the element from the top of the stack, we're going to return the element that we
have deleted.
So the next function is called Pake, and in this function, we just want to see the element from the
top of the stack.
So all we need to do is we need to return the element from the top of our stack, and that's what we
return.
Then we have the function Kosice, and the only thing we need to do for the size function is to see
how many elements are in the stack.
And if you remember from the whiteboard, explanation this size will be always will be zero, right?
It will always be zero in the beginning.
And once you add an element, the size will be increased by one.
So if there is one element, then, of course, we're just going to return this dog size because its
size will be one, if there's another element, the size will be too.
So all we need to do is return this variable this size, and that's how we can get the amount of elements
within the stack.
The last function is called empty and all we want to see if the stack has no elements in the stack,
does not have any elements it will return it to the stack has an element.
It will return false.
So what we're doing right here is returning.
We're executing dysfunction this dog size, because this size will get us the size variable.
So if the size variable is at zero.
Right.
So if it equals to zero, that means there's no elements within the stack.
So this is going to return.
True.
But if we do add an element and there is an element within the stack, then of course the size will
be one.
So when we do return, this dog size equals zero return false because we have an element in there.
Otherwise, if there's no element within the stack, then it will compare the size.
Is it equal to zero?
If it is equal to zero?
We don't have any elements in there and will return a true.
And that's it, guys.